The new feature in javascript that everyone is talking about lately async await.
In this video we're going to learn what all the hype is about to get started.
You must first know that async await is part of iOS 8 and is built on top of promises.
If you aren't sure where promises are.
Make sure you check out that video first now underneath the hood.
An async function is a function that returns a promise.
But the benefit of async await is that it makes code easier to read.
Let me show you what I mean.
This is a promise that we just made up.
It's a move player function.
Imagine we're designing a game and it has the distance plus the direction that the player moves.
And if we want to change these we have moved player dot then move player again move player again move
player again.
Now this is asynchronous code.
We know that move player is going to happen then this is going to happen then this than this.
If we want to have any sort of action within here we can wrap it in brackets in console log at extractions
all things they can do with promises with async await.
It would look something like this.
What's going on here the big benefit of async await is that it makes code easier to read and I know
you're probably not thinking that right now because this is new syntax but just give it a chance.
The goal with async await is to make code look synchronous a code that's asynchronous look synchronous.
Now if you remember a promise in Javascript is kind of like an IOU I promise to return something to
you in the future something like an ajax call with sizing an image.
Getting some information from a database.
These are all things that take time.
Instead of waiting around on them we want to continue on with our lives and just habit let us know when
it's done.
But we're going to keep working on our own stuff whilst doing that in the background.
We do it this way because that is how javascript works.
If you remember in our how javascript works video we talked about JavaScript being single threat for
programs to be efficient.
We can use asynchronous programming to do these things so promises help us solve this and it looked
like this.
Now remember what I said at the beginning async await code are just promises underneath the hood.
We call the syntactic sugar something that still does the same thing but is just different syntax to
make it look prettier syntactic sugar and promises have this done then that you keep having to change
async on the other hand has this async word in front of it and some await keywords.
So let's go through what all this means although these two things do the same with the player search
function.
We first declare a function as async we let javascript know hey this is an async function and we declare
it with the word function and the function name we now can do anything we want.
Inside of this function but we have access to a new word because we used the async word to define this
function.
We have the Kuwait keyword and this keyword sets and we can remove this for now this await keyword says
hey pause this function until I have something for you so we're awaiting their response.
And you can use this awake keyword in front of any function that returns a promise which we know that
move.
Player does and once the promises resolved.
Then the function moves to the next line and it awaits the next move and awaits the next move and awaits
the next move.
Now the cool thing above this is that instead of chaining it like this I can now assign just like a
synchronous programming variable first to await this and I can assign second
to await this and first and second will have the result of each function.
But in a variable so it looks very synchronous.
You're not using dot then you're not changing.
You just have simple synchronous programming.
You're waiting for this to happen then waiting for this to happen.
But let's use a more realistic example.
So he really understand this if we use our fetch function.
And again if you remember fetch function that's a promise.
You see that we get a promise.
So what the first function if we use our favorite API resource Jason placeholder let's grab the users
here.
So this user's end point if we want to fetch something we did return a promise so we would do a dog.
Dan response you would have to run it through.
Jason and then finally dog then console DOT Blog.
The response or the data that we get.
So again if I copy and paste this into our console get a promise that's pending initially.
Then it gets resolved and I get my users.
Now how can we turn this into an async function again.
The same feature will work the same but it will look a little bit cleaner.
You'll be syntactic sugar.
Well if you remember we have to declare a function with async keyword.
And this function will say Fetch users and fetch users will have this inside of it but we can now use
in front of anything that returns a promise.
The await keyword.
So now this function is going to pause until we get a response from fetch so I can say cost response.
Equals await the fetch call and now instead of using the dot then I can say const data equals await
response dot Jason.
Because again response that Jason returns a promise I can put the away keyword.
And then finally I can just console log data right and let's copy and paste this and see if it works.
All right.
Now I called the fetch user's function which is the async function and I made a bit of an error here.
There's no response it's Chris short form response.
There you go.
Let's try that again.
So let's refresh that copy and paste run the fetch user's function and look at that.
We have our promise that got resolved.
And we have our users nothing different from the promise but now we have a nice step by step synchronous
looking code that says fetch this.
Get a response then run it through the Jason method and then console log that and you might be thinking
to yourself Is this actually prettier than what we had before.
Let's remember what we had before
this what we had before.
This is what we have now.
And some of you may argue that the first promise way it looks better and you know what.
It's personal preference.
And this is a simple example.
So there are times where this actually looks a lot cleaner but I'm a big believer in doing what's easiest
to read and understand for you and your teammates.
Let's do one last example let's do something even more realistic.
Let's say that we have a list of you or else.
And this time we have the users the posts and albums from the Jason placeholder API and we want to run
through them all.
If you remember in our promises video we had something like this.
Let's remove this so we can see it better.
So we had something like this we did promise that all we mapped through that you or else we felt that
you are URLs and responded with the Jason and then we returned the array and the array had users post
albums and we also did a dot catch.
So again just to make sure that this works not to copy this put it into our console and we see that
we get our users posts and albums data.
So that's working Let's convert this into an async function.
Well let's start by doing a concert get data and this will be an async function and then once to point
out that I did it this time with function expression instead of the way that we did it last time which
was async function and then the function name.
But I just want to show you both ways all right.
So how can we do a promise that all Well if you remember we can now put the away keyword in front of
any promise so we can put the awake key keyboard in front of promise that all.
So I can say that concept and this is a little yes 6 magic of D structuring I can say users posts and
albums that we're gonna receive is going to equal a weight and then they promise that all which we already
have.
So let's just copy that and we're going to copy the promise that all and place it on here.
All right.
And now we can just console log what we had.
We can copy and paste right after we await all the promises.
We'll have users posts I can spell and then albums and instead of array because we've done it with restructuring.
We can just say users
post
and columns.
All right so let's see if this works copy paste this and run get data
and look at that.
We got the exact same results.
Very cool but there might be one thing that you noticed here that is in the promised way we have the
DOT catch if any of these fail.
We want to catch these errors.
How can we do that with async await.
Right now we're not catching any of these errors well.
This is the part that not a lot of people are big fans of but it is something that once you get used
to is not too bad.
Jargon script has something called try catch blocks and that is when it sees the try.
Word is just going to automatically run Whatever's inside of it.
In our case all of this block we wanted to run in a try.
BLOCK And then try comes with a catch block as well.
So try catch block within the catch if anything fails within here.
Well we can catch it in here.
So we can just do console dialog loops.
So now let's say I misspelled one of the URLs.
Copy this.
Straight out.
We'll have the new URLs clear that New York URLs with the misspelled you URL for one of them.
We're going to copy and paste that get data and you'll see only here that we get a syntax here and that
is because one thing you have to remember with catch is that the catch receives an error.
In this area you can console log it if you want.
So let's just console log and then try this again.
This time we'll just call this one.
Get Data.
What.
Perfect.
Now if I clean this up a bit and do get data one with the try catch block I get loops type error failed
to fetch.
So I get the cache block with the air just like we did with promise dot all just using promises.
And there you have it.
That's it async await although intimidating at first because there is a bit of new syntax actually makes
things quite nice and synchronous looking.
We simply have a variable that we assign the weight promise to and then the function pauses there until
the promise returns and then it continues on with console logging.
You just have to remember the try catch blocks here to catch your errors and that's it.
You're now an async await master.
You can use whichever one you prefer.
Like I said at the end of the day use promises or async await functions based on whichever one is simpler
for you and your team but hopefully when you control both of these you're now a lot more comfortable
I'll see in the next one by.